## Objective

The objective of this mini project is to research and analyze a real business case study in an industry of your choice with a data analytics or data science application. You will focus on understanding the cloud services used, its technical aspects, and the business impact of the project. Additionally, you will prepare a presentation to showcase your findings and present it to the class. The presentation will simulate a real-world scenario whereby you will assume the role of an employee of the business you have investigated and are presenting the impact and results of the project to internal and/or external stakeholders.

## Project Setup

In this mini project, you will work in **pairs** to carry out research and analysis on a business case study.

The duration for the activity is **3 hours**. You should aim to spend your time like so:

1. Choosing a topic/business case study in the field of data analytics/data science: **30 minutes**
2. Case study desk research: **2 hours**
3. Presentation preparation: **30 minutes**

The timings above are just suggestions - if you find a case study that meets the research requirements of the project in less than 30 minutes then you can get started on the research task. However, don’t spend any longer than 30 minutes the case study selection. Similarly, make sure you allow enough time to create a well-structured presentation that covers the key points of your research and main insights.

## Instructions

### Step 1: Select & Research Case Study

Begin by exploring various real business case studies related to data analytics or data science. Look for examples that highlight the utilization of cloud services. Choose one case study that aligns with your interests and provides a rich context for analysis. make sure that the case study you select has enough detailed information (see points below) to be able to have enough information to share interesting insights and findings with the class. In order to get started, take a look at the following case studies and customers of AWS, Google Cloud and Microsoft Azure:

- [AWS Case Studies](https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/case-studies/?customer-references-cards.sort-by=item.additionalFields.sortDate&customer-references-cards.sort-order=desc&awsf.customer-references-location=*all&awsf.customer-references-industry=*all&awsf.customer-references-use-case=*all&awsf.language=language%23english)
- [Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/customers)
- [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/customer-stories)

You are also free to explore other sources for the case study research. You can Google “AWS (or cloud provider of your choice) Customer Success Case Studies” or similar. Before choosing a case study, make sure to read the instructions in full so you know the kind of information you need to find for the case study.

### Step 2: **Case Study Analysis**

Take a deeper dive into the selected case study, understanding the business problem it addresses, the data sources and types involved, the cloud services employed, and the overall methodology. Investigate how the cloud services enabled or enhanced the data analytics or data science solution.

In your research you should also make sure you cover the following points. You may decide to work together as a pair to conduct the analysis or divide the research areas and then share insights with each other as your progress:

1. **Cloud Services Research:** Focus on the cloud services used in the case study. Explore the specific features, functionalities, and benefits of those cloud services. Understand their role in supporting data storage, data processing, scalability, security, or any other relevant aspects.
2. **Technical Insights**: Analyze the technical aspects of the case study, such as data preprocessing, data integration, machine learning algorithms, model training, or any other relevant technical details. Gain insights into the challenges faced, innovative approaches utilized, and lessons learned during the project implementation.
3. **Business Impact:** Evaluate and quantify the business impact achieved through the implementation of the data analytics or data science solution. Explore the key performance indicators (KPIs) that were improved, cost savings, efficiency gains, revenue growth, or any other measurable business outcomes. Demonstrate how the cloud services contributed to the overall success of the project.

**Note**: It is possible that some of the information you are searching for may not be readily available online. Some of the information may be confidential so don’t worry if you can’t find everything you are looking for. The focus of this mini project is to explore a real business case study and gather as much information as possible regarding cloud platforms and cloud services. 

### Step 3: Presentation Preparation

Prepare a professional presentation that effectively communicates your analysis and findings. You should assume the role of an employee of the business you have researched and present in a way to justify and showcase the impact and results of the project. Adopt a persuasive tone, emphasizing the business value and technical excellence of the project.

Structure your presentation to include an introduction to the case study, an overview of the cloud services used, technical insights, and a comprehensive overview of the business impact. You should aim for the presentation to be **no longer than 5 minutes in duration**.

The presentation will happen tomorrow morning and will be followed by a brief Q&A where your classmates will have the chance to ask questions about your analysis and finds.