<!-- # Intro to Cloud Computing -->

<br />
<br />

### Lesson Overview

This lesson provides an introduction to cloud computing and its application in data analytics. Key topics covered include:

1. Definition and characteristics of cloud computing.
2. Understanding Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Software as a Service (SaaS) cloud service models.
3. Exploring the advantages of using cloud platforms for data analytics, including scalability, cost-effectiveness, and flexibility.
4. Overview of popular cloud platforms for data analytics, such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), Google Cloud Platform (GCP), and Microsoft Azure.
5. Introduction to cloud-based tools and services for data-related tasks, including data storage, management, preprocessing, transformation, querying, visualization, reporting, and machine learning model training and deployment.
6. Highlighting AI services available in the cloud, including pre-trained models and APIs for image recognition, natural language processing, and sentiment analysis.

Through this lesson, students will gain an understanding of cloud computing's role in data analytics and the wide range of cloud services and platforms available for efficient and scalable data processing and analysis.


### Learning Objectives

By the end of this lesson, you will be able to:

1. Understand the concept of cloud computing and its significance in data analytics.
2. Identify popular cloud platforms and services for data analytics.

### Cloud Lesson

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12IdCkfpNWQfCY7IjfDRHXsQ7C6p9G8GRy0_ZciNExLo/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="960" height="569" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>