<!-- # Intro to DB -->

<br />
<br />

### Lesson Overview

In this lesson, we'll cover the basics of what a database is, explore the key components of relational databases, and understand the process of data modeling. We'll also touch on different methods of data storage and discuss the differences between data warehouses, marts, and lakes. By the end of this lesson, you'll have a solid foundation on how data is organized, stored, and accessed in various systems.

This lesson on Databases consists of 3 parts:

- Group research activity (~30 minutes)
- Presentations, of research carried out (~30 minutes)
- Presentation led by LT

The idea of this setup is to try and make this topic more engaging by having you research the different topics covered regarding databases. You will be divided into 4 groups and required to create some slides about your assigned topic. The topics are:

- Group 1: Database overview
    - What is a database, types of databases, DBMS, examples
- Group 2: Relational Databases
    - Definition, primary key, foreign key, relationships, schemas
- Group 3: Data Modeling
    - Definition, stages, ERD modeling, normalization
- Group 4: Data Storage and Integration
    - Data Warehouse vs Data Mart vs Data Lake. ETLs vs ELTs

After the presentations, the LT will discuss these topics using the presentation provided below.



### Learning Objectives

By the end of this lesson, you will:

- Understand the core concepts and significance of databases and DBMS.
- Differentiate key components and structures in relational databases.
- Apply data modeling techniques, including ERD creation.
- Distinguish between various data storage mechanisms and integration processes.

### Databases

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1fBLw0RIbTYEliwE3pTMMv96cHQ1TSfho-VXlC2fNtjk/embed?start=false&loop=false&delayms=3000" frameborder="0" width="960" height="569" allowfullscreen="true" mozallowfullscreen="true" webkitallowfullscreen="true"></iframe>

