# Storytelling

## Learning Goals

By the end of this lesson, students will be able to:

- Identify and target their audience
- Formulate goals and objectives to address
- Select the most effective visualization for their data
- Formulate their findings in a concise way
- Tell a story in a visual manner to engage the audience

## Introduction

This lesson presents the tools and processes to create stories with your data. You will learn how to identify your suited audience based on their objectives, and how to present your findings to them in the best possible way. You will focus on how to create a storyboard for your presentation, and how to give it a meaningful structure so that key insights from your analysis come across clearly.

The lesson serves as an introduction to some tasks that follow that should be completed to help you create the project presentation. In the first part (Part 1: Presentation - What is Storytelling?) your Lead Teacher will give a presentation, and then explain the tasks you have to do after the class to help you create your project presentation (Part 2: Storytelling Project Activities). If there is time left over then you can carry out some recommended reading (see below) and get started on the tasks.

## Part 1: Presentation - What is Storytelling?

[Storytelling - Redo](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1p8KOdyWSRcxlFjJpgdEfr4bqVSXupf-fieXvX1_Y4ls/edit?usp=drivesdk)

<br>

Following the presentation and any questions, review the following resources:

- [Tableau Stories gallery](https://public.tableau.com/en-us/gallery/day-lebanon-changed?tab=viz-of-the-day&type=viz-of-the-day)
- [Safe Houses for girls and women at risk of FGM](https://public.tableau.com/profile/tam.s.varga#!/vizhome/FGMSafeHousesinTanzania/FGMSafeHousesinTanzania)
- [Data Storytelling: The Essential Data Science Skill Everyone Needs](https://www.forbes.com/sites/brentdykes/2016/03/31/data-storytelling-the-essential-data-science-skill-everyone-needs/#2dc69a5852ad)

## Part 2: Storytelling Project Activities

### Step 1: Transfer your Data to Plot (30 mins)

- Research and set-up [Tableau Stories](https://help.tableau.com/current/pro/desktop/en-us/stories.htm).
- Import your project/plots/visualizations from your project to Tableau.

### Step 2: The Audience & The Big Idea (15 mins)

Understanding your audience is vital to creating a narrative that helps you persuade them to take action. Take a moment to reflect on the following questions:

- Who is your audience?
- What role do they play?
- Why should they care about your presentation?
- What would they like to achieve from your insights?
- What questions might they have?

Thinking about these questions will help you determine how much information you need to share so that your data directly answers business goals and creates actionable insights.

**The Big Idea** is a concept that can help you get clear and concise on the main message we want to communicate your audience. It has three components:

- It must articulate your unique point of view
- It must convey what's at stake
- It must be a complete sentence

:::info

**Example**: The pilot summer learning program aimed at improving students' perception of science was successful and, because of the success, we recommend continuing to offer it going forward; please approve our budget for this program."

:::

For this step, completing this [worksheet](https://education-team-2020.s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/data-analytics/8.9.2-big-idea-worksheet.pdf). These are the relevant questions to answer:

1. **Who's your audience?**
    - Who are the primary groups or individuals to whom you’ll be communicating?
    - If you had to narrow that to a single person, who would that be?
    - What does your audience care about?
    - What action does your audience need to take?
2. **What is at stake?**
    - What are the benefits if your audience acts in the way that you want them to?
    - What are the risks if they do not?
3. **Form your Big Idea**
    1. Articulate your point of view
    2. Convey what's at stake
    3. Write the Big Idea in one sentence

### Step 3: Storyboard (20 mins)

The storyboard is an outline that establishes the structure of your communication. Take a look at the components of a storyboard:

- Background
    - Provide the context
- Problem Statement
    - What is the problem/challenge you are trying to solve?
- Analysis
    - What kind of analysis did you perform?
- Data
    - Select data to support your points
- Findings
    - What are your main findings?
- Recommendation
    - What are your recommendations?

For this task you will storyboard your presentation. Define the following:

- What's the background?
- What's the problem?
- What kind of analysis did you perform?
- Identify the key data points to support your story
- What's the insight? What actions can we take from here?

### Step 4: Selecting Effective Visuals (30 mins)

Selecting the most relevant visuals to support your findings is critical. Here are some pointers on selecting visuals:

- Visualize
    - Select good charts to represent the data
    - Highlight key information to focus audience attention.
    - Use hierarchies to support levels of reading
- Ask for feedback
- Iterate
    - De-clutter
    - Focus your audience's attention
    - Use words carefully
    - Pay attention to details
    - Design in style

Now, carry out the following tasks:

- Choose the most effective charts to represent your insights
- Identify complementary visuals to support your big idea (images, photographs, emojis, icons, etc.)
- Read [this article](https://uxdesign.cc/how-to-use-color-in-ux-design-9ba6db4807d5) on how to create accessible color palettes
- Identify the color palette to set the tone
- Identify functional colors (alert, good, bad)
- Work on one visualization to make the data pop! Some guiding questions:
    - What's the shape you use? rectangle, circle, ellipse
    - What kind of textures will you apply? dots, stripes, transparency
    - What text hierarchies and visual weights can you play with?

### Step 5: Create the Presentation

Finally, you need to create the presentation. Here are some tips to get started, but remember to refer to the project brief also:

1. Define your Slides Tool or go for Tableau Stories
2. Set a simple style guide / master template for your presentation
3. Flesh out your storyboard into a slideshow with a max of 10 slides
4. Format your the rest of your charts and data
5. Don't forget the closing slide!